Problem Statement
Most individuals struggle with financial planning and budgeting because their financial data is:
Fragmented across bank apps, wallets, and statements
Difficult to analyze manually
Lacking intelligent insights
As a result, users:
Cannot track spending effectively
Fail to maintain budgets
Miss opportunities to save
Goal: Build an AI-powered platform that automatically tracks, categorizes, and analyzes financial data, providing actionable insights

->NAVNEET SINGH
(2301020147)
MEMBER 4 
DAY1 
Data Ingestion (Plaid API / CSV Upload)
          ↓
Transaction Storage (Database)
          ↓
Categorization Engine (LLM)
          ↓
LangChain ReAct Agent (AI reasoning & tool use)
          ↓
Streamlit UI (dashboard + insights)

TASK1-  pip install scikit-learn pandas openai langchain
(VERIFIED WITH NO ERRORS)
TASK 2- Write agent/tools.py 
Write 4 function stubs with docstrings only: get_transactions(user_id, start_date, end_date), get_budget_status(user_id, month), calculate_savings_projection(monthly_savings, months, annual_rate), categorize_spending(description). Add a comment above each explaining what it will do on Day 3.
TASK 3 -Transaction Categorization Engine
Add "Transaction Categorization Engine" section. Explain: use few-shot LLM prompting to classify raw text. Show 3 examples: "SWIGGY ORDER 4421" → Food, "UBER TRIP 8823" → Transport, "BESCOM BILL" → Housing
Transaction Categorization Engine
The Transaction Categorization Engine is responsible for automatically classifying raw financial transaction descriptions into meaningful spending categories, helping users understand their spending patterns without manual effort.
 Objective
Financial transaction data often comes in unstructured text format (e.g., merchant names, codes, or abbreviations), making it difficult to track expenses or budget effectively. This engine leverages AI to convert raw text into structured categories.

 Approach: Few-Shot LLM Prompting
Instead of relying on rigid keyword rules, we use a few-shot learning approach with a Large Language Model (LLM). The model is given a few labeled examples and generalizes to classify unseen transaction descriptions correctly.
 Few-Shot Prompt Example
The LLM receives:
Instruction: “Categorize the following transaction into one of these categories: Food, Transport, Housing, Entertainment, Others.”
Examples:
"SWIGGY ORDER 4421" → Food
"UBER TRIP 8823" → Transport
"BESCOM BILL" → Housing
New input: "DOMINOS PIZZA 324"
 Model output: Food

 How It Works
Input: User transaction (from bank, wallet, or CSV)
Processing: LLM classifies the description using few-shot examples
Output: Category label stored in the database and used for analytics





DAY2
TASK1- Build the categorization function
 Build the categorization function
In agent/categorize.py, write categorize_transaction(description) using a few-shot OpenAI prompt. Pass 6 examples in the prompt, then the new description. Return the category label.


TASK -2
Test with 10 sample inputs
Test: "SWIGGY ORDER"→Food, "UBER TRIP"→Transport, "BESCOM BILL"→Housing, "NETFLIX"→Entertainment, "AMAZON"→Shopping, "ATM WITHDRAWAL"→Other. Print results and confirm all 10 pass


TASK 3-
Connect categorizer to ingestion
Update database/ingest.py: for rows where category is blank, call categorize_transaction(description) automatically and fill it in before inserting to DB


TASK 4-
PUSH TO THE GITHUB
